hello there my name is Jay I'm one of
the expert TOEFL teachers that e to
language what we're going to do in this
class is we're going to look at the
independent essay while in fact this
will translate to any of the writing
tasks in the TOEFL but we're going to
look specifically at grammar and I'm
going to show you what perfect grammar
looks like so we need to understand how
your you need to understand how your
scored in your TOEFL writing okay there
are four things that your scored on in
the independent essay you've scored on
whether you wrote on topic so whether
you wrote to the question prompt you're
also scored on the structure of your
writing of your essay and if you haven't
seen it yet you should watch the video
that I did last time it showed you how
to write the independent essay
sentence-by-sentence to get a perfect
structure if you haven't seen that yet
do check out that video it's up there
somewhere the third thing you are graded
on your score out of 30 is that you use
clear examples explanations and details
which I will show you in the paragraph
very soon and finally you'll score on
sentence structure word choice grammar
and vocabulary now TOEFL are very
cleverly combined all of those aspects
because vocabulary and grammar come
together there's no separation of the
two words and rules words and rules
that's what it's all about
okay excellent so now that we know how
we scored what's the objective of this
lesson well I want you to see what
perfect grammar looks like I'm gonna
break down this for you and I'm going to
show you all of the verbs I'm going to
show you all of the prepositions I'm
going to show you the singular and
plural nouns I'm going to show you how I
connected my sentences I'm going to show
you a little bit of brandman however
this is too much so we're just going to
focus on this one paragraph in fact so
firstly I want to show you what the
verbs look like in this paragraph and I
want to start with verbs because verbs
are like
verbs are the most important aspect of
the sentence they're like the engine of
the sentence because they tell you
what's happening in the sentence who's
doing what for example plus every
sentence in English must have a verb and
you must get your verb right
the problem with English verbs is there
are heaps not only heaps they're heaps
of verb tenses I think there are 16 verb
tenses in English plus you have active
sentences and passive sentences and
positive or negative in question
sentences so for a single verb I think
it changes hundreds of times
so let's look closely at these ones and
I'll show you what I did in my writing
here so in the last decades advances in
machine learning have led to well have
lead is really the verb but this these
two sort of come together have led to
enormous increases in robot intelligence
computer technology has become it has
entered has become know is doing is our
disappearing has meant our sorry are
disappearing won't be are being
conducted so we have a number of
different types of verbs in here I'm not
sure if you know which is which but here
we have a present perfect here we have
present perfect again present perfect
and present perfect again then we have
present simple then we have present
continuous we have a present simple we
have a present perfect this one this is
the adverb if you imagine this
disappearing this would be the present
continuous this one we have a negative
and negative are negative future simple
and here we have a passive present
continuous so these are the types of
verbs that you want to use in your
writing you want to use a
it's not that you want to just add
different verb types to your writing to
get a higher score it doesn't work like
that
you just need to be able to choose the
right verb at the right time to do the
right function and it just so happens
that in my paragraph here I needed
present perfect
I needed present simple and I needed
present continuous I also needed one
passive sentence as well as that one
future simple verb as well so I wasn't
purposely adding in good verbs I was
just writing and because I have the
ability to use a variety of verbs I
added them as such
cool let's look at the subjects that are
associated with these verbs that's that
is all of the information before the
verb the subject so let's have a look
closely here because we have advances in
machine learning have led to there's the
verb so we got our subject and our verb
okay here's our subject here computer
technology has become so there's two
words in this subject has become here we
have a simple pronoun subject it has
entered it has become we know it is
doing it is jobs are disappearing
increases in machine intelligence in
recent years subject has meant jobs are
sorry again this is the two-part verb
that's kind of tricky it subject won't
be long there's a very point be subject
all the jobs are being conducted well
this is kind of this is where this is
where this is actually the subject this
is the object this is a passive sentence
so we reverse the subject and object if
you remember correctly but you can see
if you break writing down or you think
about sentences not as individual words
but his subjects verbs and objects you
can often write much better sentences
and if course if you remember those
subject is all of the information before
the verb that might include nouns and
adjectives and adverbs and prepositions
and articles whatever it might be one
word or it might be who knows ten words
or more but as long as it gets to that
verb that verb does something the
subject does something that's the
critical aspect there cool now you want
to write both simple sentences and
complex sentences a simple sentence if
you remember is just subject verb object
a more complex sentence or sometimes
called a compound sentence is when it's
subject verb object and then there's a
connector subject verb object or object
something like that let me show you a
few what I mean here and you can see
immediately words these sentence
connector words that I've used
especially the word there's another one
here actually that you can also use the
one like which for example to connect
your sentences to make them more complex
so have a look at this one here computer
technology has become so pervasive that
subject-verb-object eath has entered
every aspect of society in fact this one
goes on and it has become so intelligent
that subject-verb-object
we barely know that that is actually way
more complex that's a very complex
sentence this one here let's find a
simpler one here
where I've joined the subject verb
object and subject verb object by using
that so increases in machine
intelligence in recent years has meant
that jobs are disappearing and you can
see what I've done here so I do have
some simple sentences let me show you
one so advances in machine learning have
led to enormous increases in robot
intelligence so this first
here apart from this little extra a bit
of information here it's just a subject
verb and then object it's a simple
sentence then I've also added more
complex sentences in there as well
let's think about the singular and
plural nouns of course this is like the
first lesson that you ever learn in
English it's like one cat two cats but
you'll be surprised how many people
forget to put the S on the end of a noun
that is meaning that it has more than
once and let me show you what that means
so here are the nouns in this article or
this paragraph decade singular advances
plural machine-learning singular so let
me put let me put s for singular and NP
for plural okay singular plural singular
singular singular aspect societies
singular work singular jobs plural train
conductors plural supermarket attendees
more than one plural blank bank tellers
more than one increases more than one
machine intelligence singular years more
than one jobs more than one jobs and
robots it's incredibly important that
you get that right that you think about
that noun and you think ok there's one
now no s more than one noun add the s
singular and plural is the critical for
your writing success here so our
articles articles are words like and and
that now if you look at mine very
strangely I only use two articles I use
them with the noun the decade and the
work and in fact my paragraph here did
not contain any more articles than those
two which is kind of strange because
usually Oh
writing is full of articles like ah and
and especially the but there you go I
only used to just a quick rule on this
this is for specific specific things but
specific specific thing or things plural
and then you've got R or an which is for
non specific non specific Thing Thing
singular anyway that's complex if you
need any help by the way with any of
your TOEFL grammar on youtube so go to
youtube and search for this such what e
to learn english so we have a bunch of
grammar lessons in there that teaches
you all of this stuff in depth so go to
youtube search e to learn english you'll
see our videos cool let me show you the
adjectives that I used in my paragraph
are you some nice adjectives like
enormous pervasive every which is very
common one intelligent recent long and
all so I've used this one is uncommon
this one is uncommon this one is sort of
uncommon this one's very common common
common and common so the key to
vocabulary in your writing is you want
to have a range of both common words
like big all every and you want to also
want to have a range of less common
words like pervasive or aspects or
whatever but the key thing is if you're
using less common words make sure
they're precise make sure the meaning is
right because of the meaning thrown you
may as well use a simple word for that
purpose okay
so just make sure your less common words
are accurate precise cool adverbs are
also important in your writing I've used
to four of them here I used so because I
wanted to emphasize this word here
purvey
if I said it's so pervasive also I did
the same thing I used so again so
intelligence here I here's the verb no
so I said we barely know so I've used
this with a verb we barely know and I
said use one here said that already
disappearing are disappearing and I put
this in between the two verb parts are
already disappearing and this just gives
it an idea of time okay cool
prepositions these are the trickiest
bits of English I think have a look at
these little purple words here so in the
last decade advances in machine learning
have led to increases in aspect of
society such as increases in uh in
recent years it won't be long until and
conducted by so these little purple
words here in these short little
prepositions that hold the sentence
together they they show sort of location
and time they're like little bits of
glue and you need to get them right
because they have a big influence on the
accuracy of your writing for instance if
I got this wrong and I said something
like advances advances with machine
learning or if I said on the last decade
advances with machine learning it just
makes it slightly wrong imprecise and
will decrease your mark okay so you've
got to make sure that you choose that
the correct preposition linking words
are also important
however I've only used one I've just
used it before example but you can if it
works you can use words like however
whoops however or therefore
all right as oops as a result you know
all of these types of words are good for
academic writing as well except you just
want to make sure that you use them
sparingly use them only if they're
serving a good purpose don't just
include linking words because they look
good use them if they're right in the
right place okay
nearly at the end here lastly or I think
it's close to being lastly collocations
collocations are natural sounding
phrases in English so like advances in
enormous increases so what is this this
is an adjective and this is a noun
okay so this is this is this is noun and
this is preposition so it can be a
combination of different types of words
but they're just natural sounding
phrases so pervasive that entered every
aspect of society barely know there's an
adverb and a verb that go together to
form a natural phrase jobs the
disappearing that's a natural phrase in
recent years is a natural phrase it
won't be long until is a natural phrase
are being conducted by is also a natural
phrase so these mmm these word
combinations these phrases they sound
natural they make you sound like a
native speaker or native writer that's a
good thing cool so let's just think
about how you are evaluated in your
writing for your TOEFL because that's
what you need to understand
so you scored on these four things
especially in the independent essay that
you wrote on topic that you use the
logical structure again if you haven't
seen the video check it out up there
somewhere
it's the independent writing essay
structure I take you through sentence by
sentence you also scored on using good
examples explanations and details which
is a part of this structure actually so
there's my arrow
lastly sentence structure
word choice like the adjectives grammar
like the prepositions in the articles
and vocabulary so you need any help with
your TOEFL do check out this website
here ww2 language calm we specialize in
TOEFL preparation IELTS preparation PT e
OE T all the English language exams sign
up to about a live classes for free at
that website and also get a free trial
if you need extra help we offer
tutorials and and feedback and a whole
big course that you can do and all sorts
of stuff like that anyway now it's time
for QA so let me answer some of your
questions that you may have mmm any
questions please feel free to put them
into the chat there okay what do we got
on YouTube let me just switch accounts
so I can answer with my cool all right
I'm just gonna say something here hello
people on YouTube yes it's cool yes if
you want to join the live classes just
go to WWE to language comm click on the
front page says live classes click that
you sign up for free then you'll be
inside the webinar and I can talk to you
cool nobody has any questions all good
all good all right I might leave it
there if you have any questions just
email hello at e to language comm my
name is Jay thanks very much for
watching I'll see you soon
you